---
id: knowledge-graph
title: Knowledge Graphs
sidebar_label: Knowledge Graphs
---

Knowledge graphs represent collections of interconnected descriptions of
entities. Such entities can describe objects, events, concepts, or any other
phenomenon. The purpose of a knowledge graph is to link entities with semantic
metadata and to provide context. This way, enriched data can be used for further
analysis and advanced analytics.

![memgraph-graph-algorithm-applications-knowledge-graphs](../data/applications/memgraph-graph-algorithm-applications-knowledge-graphs.png)

## Applying graphs

### Natural Language Processing

Until a few years ago, both natural language processing (NLP) and computer
vision algorithms were struggling to do well on entity recognition from text and
object detection from images. Because of recent progress, these algorithms are
starting to move beyond the basic recognition tasks to extracting relationships
among objects necessitating a representation in which the extracted relations
could be stored for further processing and reasoning.

### Finding patterns

Graph structures are well suited for feature extraction tasks where the newly
generated insights are used for machine learning techniques. Graph algorithms
can help identify hidden patterns. For example, graph scientists at AstraZeneca
use graphs in conjunction with machine learning to uncover patient journey
archetypes and patterns. Such techniques can help in performing early
interventions and improve patient outcomes for illnesses like kidney disease.

## Where to next?

This text is a **summary** of one area that fits perfectly with the application
of graphs. Therefore, we would like to have you with us when **implementing**
some of these solutions. Share **opinions**, **experiences** and **problems**
you encounter when working with **Memgraph** on our [Discord
server](https://discord.gg/memgraph). We are here for you and we will help you
along the way.
