---
id: social-media
title: Social Media
sidebar_label: Social Media
---

## Introduction

The amount of data collected each day is rising at an alarming pace. Social
media platforms such as Facebook, LinkedIn, Twitter, and many others save
interactions between users while also tracking their individual behavior on a
daily basis. While this data is essential in making intelligent and
business-critical decisions, it is becoming increasingly difficult to analyze
such data structures in the search for meaningful insights. The field of social
network analysis (SNA), or more broadly known as network science, utilizes graph
theory to better understand such structures. Even though the name might suggest
otherwise, techniques that are used for social network analysis can be applied
to various other network structures such as transportation networks, shipping
networks, financial networks, etc.

![memgraph-graph-algorithm-applications-social-media](../data/use-cases/memgraph-graph-algorithm-applications-social-media.png)

## Applying graphs

### Advertising in social networks

Social networks are essential to both social scientists interested in how
individuals interact and businesses attempting to target customers for
advertising. For example, if advertisers connect three people as friends,
coworkers, or family members, and two of them buy the advertiser's product, the
advertiser may choose to spend more money on advertising to the third hold-out,
assuming that this target has a high propensity to buy the advertiser's product.

### Identifying communities

While humans are very good at detecting distinct or repetitive patterns among a
few components, the nature of large, interconnected networks makes it
practically impossible to perform such basic tasks manually. Groups of densely
connected nodes are easy to spot visually, but more sophisticated methods are
needed to perform these tasks programmatically. Community detection algorithms
are used to find such groups of densely connected components in various
networks.

### Get custom recommendation

A very common problem in network analysis is link prediction. The algorithm
predicts which new interactions among the network members are likely to occur in
the near future. One way of predicting these links is by measuring the
“proximity” of nodes in a network. This can be done by using similarity
algorithms such as cosine similarity, Jaccard similarity and overlap similarity.

## Where to next?

This text is a **summary** of one area that fits perfectly with the application
of graphs. Therefore, we would like to have you with us when **implementing**
some of these solutions. Share **opinions**, **experiences** and **problems**
you encounter when working with **Memgraph** on our [Discord
server](https://discord.gg/memgraph). We are here for you and we will help you
along the way.
