---
id: retail-application
title: Retail
sidebar_label: Retail
---

## Introduction

The amount of data generated each day in retail is enormous. That data has to be
harnessed and analyzed to gain value. Edges between nodes in the graph database
perfectly correspond with the relationships between buyers and products. Key
connections can be discovered from all that data and used to build a product
recommendation system, detect communities of buyers or optimize the supply
chain. 

![memgraph-graph-algorithm-applications-retail](../data/applications/memgraph-graph-algorithm-applications-retail.png)

## Applying graphs

### Suply chain optimization

Supply-chain optimization ensures the optimal operation of a manufacturing and
distribution supply chain. That includes the optimal inventory placement within
the supply chain, minimizing operating costs, including manufacturing,
transportation, and distribution costs. The goal is to maximize the profitable
operation of the manufacturing and distribution supply chain. 

If we observe a product's life cycle, it starts from the raw materials from
which it was made and ends as a full product at the retailer. Naturally, that
life cycle can be represented using nodes and relationships in a graph database.
Next, using graph algorithms, the supply chain can be optimized.

### Product recommendation

Systems that are recommending which book to buy, movie to watch, music to listen
to, etc., are becoming more popular each year. Organizations using product
recommendation systems increase their revenue and create stronger relationships
with their buyers. Sellers want to recommend each buyer something according to
their taste. That can be done by finding similar buyers, recommending some
trendy products from the same category that the user has bought, or finding
similar products to the one the buyer has purchased. All that data is somehow
connected and is best shown in a graph database. Using graph algorithms and
machine learning, you can quickly implement a recommendation system that suits
your needs.

### Discovering communities

By choosing the right audience, some brands can offer genuine value to the buyer
and increase their revenue. The buyer sees that brand as a perfect fit for its
needs and frequently buys its products. Therefore, communities discovery plays a
vital role in purchase decisions. With graph databases and graph algorithms, the
discovery of different communities of buyers has proven to be valuable and
straightforward.

## Where to next?

This text is a **summary** of one area that fits perfectly with the application
of graphs. Therefore, we would like to have you with us when **implementing**
some of these solutions. Share **opinions**, **experiences** and **problems**
you encounter when working with **Memgraph** on our [Discord
server](https://discord.gg/memgraph). We are here for you and we will help you
along the way.