---
id: telecommunication-application
title: Telecommunication
sidebar_label: Telecommunication
---

The graph model is a natural way to represent a telecommunication network, a
group of communication devices and structure that supports the routing and
transmission of information. Base stations and cell phones are part of that
network. Naturally, nodes represent base stations, and edges connect those whose
signals could interfere. These connections can contain additional information, a
weight of an interference.

![memgraph-graph-algorithm-applications-telecommunications](../data/applications/memgraph-graph-algorithm-applications-telecommunications.png)

## Network design using graph analytics

Modern communication networks are large, dynamic, complex, and increasingly use
virtualized network infrastructure. To deploy, maintain, and troubleshoot such
networks, it is essential to understand how network elements such as servers,
switches, virtual machines, and virtual network functions are connected to one
another. This understanding can allow us to discover the most appropriate and
efficient communication paths between them. 

By modeling telecommunications networks as graphs, we are able to use standard
graph theory algorithms to analyze the interaction between specific network
elements. Complex simulations can be reduced to simple algorithms which can aid
in risk management and designing failsafes.

## Organizing antennas

When making a call, the phone must have an established connection with the base
station. The antenna on the base station has a particular signal strength that
decreases with distance, so the phone should be connected to the base station
nearby to provide the required quality. The major challenge is to ensure the
quality of calls on the move. If the phone moves away from the base station, the
signal diminishes, and the phone disconnects. To avoid call interruptions, the
phone should find a new base station, the closest one at that moment, and
connect to it.

Code planning aims to assign codes and ensure that connected base stations are
given different codes. In graph theory terminology, codes are equivalent to
colors, and therefore code planning can be reformulated as a [graph
coloring](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Graph_coloring) problem.

## Where to next?

This text is a **summary** of one area that fits perfectly with the application
of graphs. Therefore, we would like to have you with us when **implementing**
some of these solutions. Share **opinions**, **experiences** and **problems**
you encounter when working with **Memgraph** on our [Discord
server](https://discord.gg/memgraph). We are here for you and we will help you
along the way.
