---
id: storage
title: Storage memory usage
sidebar_label: Storage memory usage
---

Estimating Memgraph's storage memory usage is not entirely straightforward
because it depends on a lot of variables, but it is possible to do so quite
accurately. Below is an example that will try to show the basic reasoning.

If you want to estimate the storage memory usage, use the following formula:

`StorageRAMUsage = NumberOfNodes*260B + NumberOfEdges*180B`

Let's test this formula on the [Marvel Comic Universe Social Network
dataset](https://memgraph.com/download/datasets/marvel-cinematic-universe/marvel-cinematic-universe.cypherl.gz),
which is also available as a dataset inside Memgraph Lab and contains 21,723
nodes and 682,943 edges. 

According to the formula, storage memory usage should be: 

StorageRAMUsage = 21,723*260B + 682,943*180B
StorageRAMUsage = 5,647,980B + 122,929,740B = 128,577,720B ~125MB

Now, let's run an empty Memgraph instance on a x86 Ubuntu. It consumes **~75MB**
of RAM due to baseline runtime overhead. Once the dataset is loaded, RAM usage
rises up to **~260MB**. memory usage primarily consists of storage and query
execution memory usage. After executing `FREE MEMORY` query to force the cleanup
of query execution, the RAM usage drops to **~200MB**. If the baseline runtime
overhead of **75MB** is subtracted from the total memory usage of the dataset,
which is **200MB**, and storage memory usage comes up to **~125MB**, which shows
that the formula is correct.

## The calculation in detail

Let's dive deeper into the memory usage values. Because Memgraph works on the
x86 architecture, calculations are based on the x86 Linux memory usage.

:::tip 
For the latest and most precise memory layout please clone
[Memgraph](https://github.com/memgraph/memgraph) and use, e.g.,
[pahole](https://github.com/PhilArmstrong/pahole-gdb) to discover accurate
information. 
:::

Each `Vertex` and `Edge` object has a pointer to a `Delta` object. The
`Delta` object stores all changes on a certain `Vertex` or `Edge` and that's
why `Vertex` and `Edge` memory usage will be increased by the memory of
the `Delta` objects they are pointing to. If there are few updates, there are
also few `Delta` objects because the latest data is stored in the object.
But, if the database has a lot of concurrent operations, many `Delta` objects
will be created. Of course, the `Delta` objects will be kept in memory as long as
needed, and a bit more, because of the internal GC inefficiencies.

### Delta memory layout

Each `Delta` object has a least **104B**.

### Vertex memory layout

Each `Vertex` object has at least **112B** + **104B** for the `Delta` object, in
total, a minimum of **216B**.

### Edge memory layout

Each `Edge` object has at least **40B** + **104B** for the `Delta` object, in
total, a minimum of **144B**.

### `SkipList` memory layout

Each object (`Vertex`, `Edge`) is placed inside a data structure
called a `SkipList`. The `SkipList` has an additional overhead in terms of
`SkipListNode` structure and `nexts` pointers. Each `SkipListNode` has an
additional **8B** element overhead + **8B x #next_pointers**.

It is impossible to know the exact size of the **#next_pointers** upfront, but
it's never higher than **2 x #objects** because the number of pointers is
generated by binomial distribution (take a look at the source code for details).

### Index memory layout

Each `LabelIndex::Entry` object has exactly **16B**.

Depending on the actual value stored, each `LabelPropertyIndex::Entry` has at least **72B**.

Each Index Entry object is placed into the Skiplist.

#### Each index object in total

- `SkipListNode<LabelIndex::Entry>` object has **24B**.
- `SkipListNode<LabelPropertyIndex::Entry>` has at least **80B**.
- Each `SkipListNode` has an additional **16B** because of the **next_pointers**.

### Properties

All properties use at least **1B** for encoding the extra information about the
type of the value stored, the size of the property key (is an integer stored in
1B, 2B, 4B, or 8B), and the last **4bits** are used for a variety of reasons
depending on the value type of the property. After the initial byte, properties
store the value of its key.

Minimal size without values: **2-9B**

#### Size of the value

|Value                                  |Size                                                    |
|---------------------------------------|--------------------------------------------------------|
|`NULL`                                 |1B                                                      |
|`BOOL`                                 |1B                                                      |
|`INT` uses the minimal amount of bytes |1B, 2B, 4B or 8B                                        |
|`DOUBLE`                               |8B                                                      |
|`STRING`                               |min 2B                                                  |
|`LIST`                                 |                                                        |
|`MAP`                                  |                                                        |
|`TEMPORAL DATA`                        |8B                                                      |

### Marvel dataset use case

Taking into account the Marvel dataset, which has 3 labels and 3 property
indices, the calculation is as follows:

- Nodes x (`Vertex` + `name` property (let's assume each name is on average 10
chars long, therefor the name on average has 2B+10B) + `SkipListNode` + `next_pointers` +
`Delta`) = 21723×(112+12+16+16+104)
- Edges x (`Edge` + `SkipListNode` + `next_pointers` + `Delta`) = 682943×(40+16+16+104)
- Label Index Entry x (`SkipListNode<LabelIndex::Entry>` + `next_pointers`) = 3×21723×(24+16)
- Label Property Index Entry x (`SkipListNode<LabelIndex::Entry>` + `name`
  property + `next_pointers`) = 3×21723×(80+12+16)

In total **~130MB**, but bear in mind the number can vary because objects
can have higher overhead due to the additional data.

## Query Execution memory Usage

Query execution also uses up RAM. In some cases, intermediate results are
aggregated to return valid query results and the query execution memory can end
up using a large amount of RAM. Keep in mind that query execution memory
monotonically grows in size during the execution, and it's freed once the query
execution is done.

# Configuration options to reduce memory usage

Here are several tips how you can reduce memory usage and increase scalability:

1. Consider removing label index by executing `DROP INDEX ON :Label;` 
2. Consider removing label-property index by executing `DROP INDEX
   ON:Label(property);` 
3. If you don't have properties on relationships, disable them in the
   configuration file by setting the `-storage-properties-on-edges` flag to
   `false`. This can significantly reduce memory usage because effectively
   `Edge` objects will not be created, and all information will be inlined under
   `Vertex` objects. You can disable properties on relationships with a
   non-empty database, if the relationships are without properties. If you need
   help with adapting the configuration to your needs, check out the the how-to
   guide on [changing configuration settings](/how-to-guides/config-logs.md). 

You can also check our reference guide for information about [controlling memory
usage](/reference-guide/memory-control.md), and you
[inspect](/reference-guide/inspecting-queries.md) and
[profile](/reference-guide/profiling-queries.md) your queries to devise a plan
for their optimization. 