# User License Agreement

1. Description

THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT GOVERNS LICENSEE’S USE OF THE MEMGRAPH COMMUNITY
RELEASE AND DOCUMENTATION.

2. License Grant

The Software and Documentation are provided to Licensee at no charge and are
licensed, not sold to Licensee. No ownership of any part of the Software and
Documentation is hereby transferred to Licensee. Subject to (i) the terms and
conditions of this License Agreement, (ii) any additional license restrictions
and parameters contained on Licensor’s quotation, website, or order form
(“Order Form”), Licensor hereby grants Licensee a personal, non-assignable,
non-transferable and non-exclusive license to install, access and use the
Software (in object code form only) and Documentation for Licensee’s internal
business purposes only. All rights relating to the Software and Documentation
that are not expressly licensed in this License Agreement, whether now existing
or which may hereafter come into existence are reserved for Licensor. Licensee
shall not remove, obscure, or alter any proprietary rights notices (including
without limitation copyright and trademark notices), which may be affixed to or
contained within the Software or Documentation.

3. Restrictions

Licensee will not, directly or indirectly, (a) copy the Software or
Documentation in any manner or for any purpose; (b) install, access or use any
component of the Software or Documentation for any purpose not expressly
granted in Section 2 above; (c) resell, distribute, publicly display or
publicly perform the Software or Documentation or any component thereof, by
transfer, lease, loan or any other means, or make it available for use by
others in any time-sharing, service bureau or similar arrangement; (d)
disassemble, decrypt, extract, reverse engineer or reverse compile the
Software, or otherwise attempt to discover the source code, confidential
algorithms or techniques incorporated in the Software; (e) export the Software
or Documentation in violation of any applicable laws or regulations; (f)
modify, translate, adapt, or create derivative works from the Software or
Documentation; (g) circumvent, disable or otherwise interfere with
security-related features of the Software or Documentation; (h)
reverse-engineer, disassemble, attempt to derive the source code; (i) use the
Software or Documentation for any illegal purpose, in any manner that is
inconsistent with the terms of this License Agreement, or to engage in illegal
activity; (j) remove or alter any trademark, logo, copyright or other
proprietary notices, legends, symbols or labels on, or embedded in, the
Software or Documentation; or (k) provide access to the Software or
Documentation to third parties.

4. Warranty Disclaimer

THE MEMGRAPH COMMUNITY RELEASE AND DOCUMENTATION ARE PROVIDED “AS IS” FOR
DEVELOPMENT, TESTING AND EVALUATION PURPOSES ONLY. IT IS NOT LICENSED FOR
PRODUCTION USE AND LICENSOR MAKES NO AND DISCLAIMS ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION ANY IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF
MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE, TITLE OR NONINFRINGEMENT OF
THIRD PARTIES’ INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS OR OTHER PROPRIETARY RIGHTS.
NEITHER THIS LICENSE AGREEMENT NOR ANY DOCUMENTATION FURNISHED UNDER IT IS
INTENDED TO EXPRESS OR IMPLY ANY WARRANTY THAT THE OPERATION OF THE SOFTWARE
WILL BE UNINTERRUPTED, TIMELY, OR ERROR-FREE.

BY DOWNLOADING AND/OR ACCESSING THIS SOFTWARE, YOU AGREE TO SUCH TERMS.
